Okay. Okay, here she comes.
[ All ]
Happy Mother’s Day! Aah!
- What are you wearing?
- You don’t remember
this shirt?
You made it for me
for Mother’s Day
in kindergarten. It’s adorable.
It’s perverted. It looks like
you were felt up by the creepy
guy around the corner.
Ew! Why him?
Because he’s got
freakishly tiny hands.
Thank you.
I cannot believe
you kept that shirt.
Of course I kept it.
I’m your mother.
I keep everything
you make me.
Please take that off.
[ Claire ]
Oh, when I’m dead.
Today is my special day,
and I am gonna enjoy me
some coffee.
You know that’s
a pencil holder, right?
I do now.
- [ Jay ]
Go first.
- No, you can go first.
- Manny, go first.
- No, Jay, you go first.
Somebody give me
a present.
Oh, Jay!
A diamond necklace.
[ Laughs ]
Thank you.
You deserve it.
Go ahead, kid.
Happy Mother’s Day, Mom.
Ah!
[ Gasps ] A necklace made
of the Froot Loops.
I love it.
I know they’re not
exactly diamonds, Mom.
No, they’re beautiful.
You know what?
I got a confession to make.
Those aren’t real diamonds.
No. Give them back.
I’ll get you
some real ones later.
Dang it.
Now I got to come clean.
Those aren’t real Froot Loops.
They’re generic.
I–
Now I have
no presents again.
Good morning!
Hey!
Hey, what’s this?
Well, I know you’ve had
some late nights with Lily,
and this is just my way
of saying thank you
and I love you.
Oh! Thank you.
And this is
just the beginning.
Today is your day.
Today?
Yeah. All day.
Today’s my day?
- Something’s happening.
- It’s Mother’s Day, Mitchell.
So?
You’re bringing me
breakfast in bed
on Mother’s Day.
This is not a Mother’s Day
breakfast. This is a breakfast
that happens to be–
You think of me
as Lily’s mother.
- I’m your wife.
I’m a woman.
- What?
Honestly,
I’m a little offended
that he accused me of that.
I’m actually very sensitive
to that issue.
[ Chuckles ]
Like I would ever treat
my partner as a woman. I–
Somebody got
new curtains.
Well, Mrs. Pritchett
loves to shop.
Oh! We’re never
gonna be done by 6:00.
I better call home.
The wife’s
not gonna like this.
[ Laughs ]
Sometimes I think he
just wants to be mad at me.
I can’t eat.
Okay, you know what?
If you can’t accept
the nice gesture,
then just forget it.
Okay, scratch the balloons.
She is in a mood.
♪ Hey, hey ♪
♪ Hey ♪♪
I asked Claire what she wanted
for Mother’s Day,
and she said, "Take a hike."
[ Chuckling ]
It’s not like that.
She’s just bananas
for walking around in nature.
So she and Gloria are taking
the kids up the canyon,
and Jay and I are throwing
on the aprons and preparing
a Mother’s Day feast.
It’s–
It’s gonna be fun.
[ Beeps ]
♪♪ [ ’60s Soul ]
♪ I know you
wanna leave me ♪
♪ But I refuse to– ♪
[ Beeps ]
♪♪ [ Stops ]
We’re not doing that.
[ Luke ] There are coyotes
in these woods.
Did you pack a weapon?
I have a walking stick.
Does it become a sword?
I guess it can become
a running stick.
You’re gonna outrun
a coyote?
The fastest mammal
in the world.
I’m not sure that’s true.
And how are you
gonna fend ’em off
with a Popsicle stick?
It’s a spear,
and it smells
like lemon lime,
a flavor coyotes hate.
Where are you getting
your information?
How much farther?
I’d like to go far enough
that we can’t still see
our car in the parking lot.
I’m getting dust
in my mouth.
[ Alex Groans ]
You have
to appreciate nature.
Yes.
Soon this will be the mall.
I’ll come then.
I’m hungry.
I say we eat
what we kill.
Oh, then I guess
we’ll be eating the mood.
I don’t get you
at all.
I know.
[ Groans ]
Oh, is that
the party
over there?
I don’t know.
I’m a woman, remember? I have
a terrible sense of direction.
May I remind you
that my big crime was
making you fluffy pancakes.
I’m getting a little sick
of you dwelling on this.
It happens
to be Mother’s Day,
not Martyr’s Day.
[ Sighs ]
Mitchell, I’m sorry.
It’s just
a sensitive issue for me.
Okay.
There’s nothing gays
hate more than when people–
[ Both ] Treat us like women.
We’re not.
We don’t want to go
to your baby shower.
We don’t have
a time of the month.
We don’t love pink.
You love pink.
No, pink loves me.
Okay, well–
- Hey, guys!
- Hey!
So?
That’s Jen, husband Rick, baby
Diego. I don’t get it either.
Hey, Jen, let me
help you with that.
Ah.
Rick, how you doing?
We should do play group
on weekends more often.
It’s nice to have
the husbands around
to help, right?
Oh, yeah, because that makes
all the sense in the world–
you as the husband.
That’s not what she meant.
Look at us.
I could snap you like a twig.
Every once in a while,
you say that thing
about the twig,
and I need you to know
that it bothers me.
Sorry.
Okay, everybody.
Happy Mother’s Day.
I know I speak
for all the guys...
when I say thank you
for everything you do
while we’re off having affairs.
- [ All Laughing ]
- I’m kidding.
I’ll pay for that later.
Let’s get the moms and kids
together for a picture.
Let’s get out of here.
Leave the stroller and run.
Cam, stop.
No one’s going
to ask you to–
[ Jen ] Cameron, get on up here!
I don’t know.
You guys just go ahead there.
You’re an honorary mom.
Come on.
[ Cameron ] I don’t know.
Okay, all right.
Unhand me.
Get over there.
[ Jen ] Oh, yeah, yeah.
Okay, tighten up.
Tighten up.
Up here, ladies.
[ Camera Beeps ]
Beautiful.
One more, gals.
[ Beeps ]
Oh, thanks, ladies.
Thanks so much. Perfect.
[ Jen ]
Great. Okay.
Yeah, that was
definitely poison oak.
I think this rash is spreading.
Ay, Manny, that’s not a rash.
It’s red because
you scratch it.
I just don’t want
my throat to close.
Wouldn’t be
the worst thing.
I’m so bored,
I’d rather be reading.
I’m so bored, I chewed
the last bug that flew in
my mouth just to feel something.
I’m so bored,
I’m talking to you.
[ Grunts ]
Okay.
For the last 20 minutes,
all you people have done
is whine.
You would think
on Mother’s Day, at least,
you would have something nice–
[ Luke ]
Shh!
What?
Thought I heard
a coyote.
Go ahead.
[ Alex ]
God, Luke, you’re such an idiot.
At least
I don’t look
like an idiot.
What does that mean?
Your hat.
It looks like you
walked under a bird
that poops ugly hats.
Can we watch the language?
There’s nothing else
to watch.
Enough complaining!
You can’t bitch all day
because you’re not
at the beach all day!
Come on.
No. No, no.
I– I’m giving myself
a Mother’s Day present.
Kids, your hike is over.
Yes!
Yeah!
All right!
No. No, not happy. Bad.
Hmm.
Sad.
Gloria and I are gonna
go finish this beautiful
hike together...
while you sit here
and think about how selfish
and thoughtless you’ve been.
Come on.
If we’re thoughtless,
how can we think?
You just lost
your water.
Let’s go.
- What the hell are those?
- Onion goggles.
No more tears when I cook.
Welcome to the 21st century.
You should get a pair.
I was gonna suggest
the same thing.
Hey, Jay, you know what
we should put in this?
We should add a–
No. It’s my mom’s recipe.
Whatever it says on the page
goes in the pot.
Nothing more, nothing less.
Now, how long do I stir
the beef and sausages?
Read it to me.
[ As Julia Child ]
"We should stir the beef
and sausages for five minutes."
And how much longer do
I have to listen to
the Julia Child impression?
For as long
as it’s still funny.
I think the timer
just went off on that.
That was unnecessary.
[ Normal Voice ]
What’s this? What?
Hey, Jay, maybe after this,
we should make
the perfect mom.
All we need
is a tablespoon of love,
one cup of warmth.
Add one heart, softened.
What the hell
are you talking about?
This recipe for the perfect mom,
by Jay Francis Pritchett,
age nine.
Geez, I forgot
all about that.
I didn’t know
she had it in there.
What’s that, Francis?
Nothing.
How much longer
on the meat?
Ohh.
I love this part
about "serves one small boy."
It’s adorable.
Wow. A hundred and seventy
five pounds of tenderness.
She must have loved that.
Big woman?
Jay?
And that’s when I saw it.
Are–
Are you crying?
No. It’s the onions, damn it.
Give me these.
What are you
looking at?
Nothing.
Those really frame your face.
[ Spoon Tapping Pot ]
[ Claire ]
Oh! Wow! Beautiful.
Ay, thank you.
[ Sucks Teeth ]
Okay, I don’t
want you to judge me,
but I have to say something.
Sometimes I wanna
punch my kids.
You don’t mean that.
No, I do. I do.
The last time
they were horrible
the way they were today,
they happened to be
all lined up,
and I couldn’t
help but think
if I hit just one of ’em,
the rest would go down
like dominoes.
Geez.
I know.
That would rob me
of the pleasure...
of hitting each one
individually, but–
Oh, my God.
You don’t talk about
your children this way.
Oh, come on.
You know Manny
irritates you.
No. Manny is the best thing
that ever happened to me.
We have a special bond.
Yes. Bonds. I know.
But that’s not
what I’m talking about now.
Claire, for a long time,
it was only the two of us.
I cannot say anything
bad about that boy.
Give me a break.
Gloria, anybody who’s
ever had a kid knows...
that they can irritate
the freaking life out of you
at some point.
Am I right?
Oh. Okay.
He’s persnickety.
What?
Manny.
He’s persnickety.
It drives me up the wall.
Okay. Persnickety.
Good start.
And he follows me around
all the time.
Mm-hmm.
Sometimes I love it,
but sometimes I need
my own space.
This does not
make you a bad mother
to admit these things–
And the poetry–
it’s not very good.
Ha.
First time
that I say that out loud.
Okay.
[ Laughs ]
It’s not very good!
Wow.
[ Both Laugh ]
I love Manny.
Right.
But sometimes I–
Just be a boy.
Go outside. Kick a ball.
Steal something.
Oh–
[ Screams ]
It feels so good.
Yeah.
[ Laughing ]
[ Manny ]
Maybe to you.
No, Manny. ¡Ay!
I was talking
about another Manny
that I know long time ago.
Diablo.
Manny!
You know,
more people have died hiking
than in the entire Civil War.
Okay, what book
did you read that in?
Book? Wake up and smell
the Internet, grandma.
You know Mom’s just gonna
want us to apologize.
Well, we did kind
of ruin her Mother’s Day.
No. She ruined
her Mother’s Day.
She took us to a place
she knew we wouldn’t like,
and then we complained
for, like, a second
and we’re the bad guys?
That’s a good point.
You ever get the feeling
she does this intentionally?
- Why would she do that?
- So she can make us
feel guilty.
Exactly. And the next time
we’re choosing what to do,
she gets her way again.
And the next time
and the next time,
and eventually it’s
Mother’s Day every day.
Wow. Mom’s really smart.
Well, not smarter
than me.
Well–
I say we don’t
apologize this time.
Let her know we’re
onto her little game.
We could change the way
this whole family operates.
Okay, so nobody
says they’re sorry.
Got it?
Keep your mouth shut
when she comes back.
If she comes back.
Jay teared up in front of me.
He’d never shown me
that kind of vulnerability,
and it embarrassed him.
I’d shamed the proud lion.
Only thing to do–
hug the proud lion.
Oh, I could get bit.
I could get scratched.
But you know
what’s inside every lion?
A pussycat.
I need you to get
away from me.
Yeah.
Okay, I’m just gonna
say this one time
so we can move on.
It’s okay.
Gotcha.
You know what "it" is?
It’s you crying.
Which I didn’t.
You teared up.
It was the onions.
Okay. Okay.
Maybe, um– Maybe I’m just
putting myself in your place.
But if I came across something
from my childhood
and it reminded me of my mom,
I might get a little misty,
maybe even wanna talk about it.
Here.
So proud.
They offered me
a bouquet, Mitchell.
Which you accepted.
Why can’t you
ever take my side?
They think of me
as a woman.
Cam, no. We’re just
a new type of family.
They don’t have
the right vocabulary
for us yet.
They need one of us
to be the mom.
So why does it
have to be me?
Do I wear a dress?
Well–
That’s a nightshirt.
It’s kind of satiny.
What are you saying?
Come on, you know.
No. No, no. No, no.
I don’t know.
All right,
if I’m thinking about it–
Of the two of us,
if I had to pick,
I-I might say that
you’re slightly mom-er.
Excuse me.
Can you throw that ball?
- Can I throw a ball?
- [ Laughs ]
You don’t– You don’t think
I can throw a ball?
Cam–
No, no.
That’s not
what he said.
Apparently, this gentleman
doesn’t think
I can throw a ball.
- Well, that’s not what he said.
- You don’t think I can throw
a ball? Well, let’s find out.
[ Grunts ]
- [ Grunting ]
- [ Mitchell ]
Oh, God, he looks old.
Oh! Oh, sorry!
Cam– Hands.
Sorry!
There you go.
Ay, Manny,
I didn’t mean any of it.
Please, forgive me.
I don’t think I can.
Let’s just get in the van.
Oh. Sorry for the rhyme.
I know how you hate
my poetry.
Please, stop my suffering.
Say something
terrible about me...
so that we can be
even like a Steven.
Why would I say
something terrible
to someone I love?
I curse my tongue!
I’m gonna
intervene here.
Manny, let’s talk about
what really happened.
Your mom said
you should go out
and throw a ball around.
That can’t be the first time
you’ve heard that.
No.
But there was
some hurtful stuff
said about my poetry.
Which your mom regrets.
I do.
So, that’s what
parents are for.
Sometimes they criticize
because it helps
make you stronger.
Kids these days
get-get trophies
just for showing up.
What’s that gonna lead to?
A bunch of 30-year-olds
living at home.
Manny, your mother
loves you very much.
She’s a human being.
So she let off
a little steam.
Honestly, it’s
probably a great thing
for your relationship.
I guess I can–
Stop.
He needs to know
the real truth.
Manny, Claire
was feeling bad...
because she wants
to hit her own children.
So I tried to make her
feel better by inventing
terrible things about you.
You mean, you don’t have
a problem with my poetry?
No. The only problem
that I have is that
I never have enough of it.
Mm. Mm.
You’re the perfect kid
in every way.
Ay, mi amor.
Wow. That’s healthy.
[ Alex ]
Good. You’re back.
Uh-huh.
Are we done?
Unless you have
something to say...
to the person
who gave you life
on her special day.
No.
I’m good.
How about my baby Luke?
Uh–
No.
[ Mitchell ]
Hey.
Here.
What’s this?
It’s a Mother’s Day card.
And I know–
Stop it. Okay–
Cam, that was...
Gloria’s card from Manny.
But I just wanted you to see
what its definition
for "mother" was on it.
It’s "warm," "nurturing,"
"supportive." I–
Maybe when the world
sees you–
Not just the world.
Fine. Fine. Me too.
But maybe this
is what we’re seeing,
and I don’t know
why that’s such a bad thing.
It certainly doesn’t
make you less of a man.
Right?
Maybe you’re right.
Yeah.
Come on.
Let’s join the party.
And, Cam,
put down the scotch.
You’re not fooling anyone.
It is so burn-y. My God.
[ Jay ]
Come on, people!
Everybody to the table!
[ Sighs ]
[ Video Game Blips ]
It’s just hard, you know,
having your Mother’s Day ruined.
[ Sighs ]
I never thought
it would be you, Lucas.
[ Sniffles ]
Don’t even
think about it.
But she’s sad.
Sad she’s losing.
She just hit you
with her best shot.
We need to stay strong.
But I feel–
Don’t feel.
Just go splash water
on your face and man up.
We’re your mother now.
How was your day
with my dad?
Awkward, actually.
He, um–
He cried a little.
My dad?
Shh.
Dad what?
He cried.
I didn’t
say he cried.
Who cried?
My dad.
Stop.
Why would you
make Jay sob like that?
I didn’t make him sob.
He teared up when I found
this poem he wrote
for his mom as a boy.
[ Together ]
Aw!
What is "aw"?
Phil saw Dad cry.
Jay misses his mama.
Everybody stop.
Is anybody hungry?
- What?
- You cried for your mommy.
Oh, crap. I did not.
Yes. Phil just told–
No, that’s not true.
She’s a liar.
What’s wrong with you?
I know you
would all be so happy...
if you thought I had
some big emotional moment
about my mom, but I didn’t.
- So you don’t miss your mom?
- Of course I do.
She was a great lady.
And she also left me
a fantastic recipe for sauce,
which now is getting cold.
So can we
please eat?
Let’s eat.
Hear! Hear!
Just grab some wine.
Oh, my gosh.
Smell that.
It smells like Grandma’s house.
Hey, you guys
remember that?
- I remember the first time
I cut spaghetti.
- "Eh-eh."
And that’s what she did.
"Eh-eh."
"You can’t cut spaghetti."
She taught me to twirl.
Oh, she’s the one.
[ Jay ]
Yeah, she was tough.
I remember I had
this little league coach,
and one time after a game,
he was laying into me
about something–
I don’t remember.
But Mom comes charging
out of the stands.
She goes right up to the guy.
Face-to-face.
Nose to nose.
And she says to him,
"Let me tell you something.
Nobody,
and I mean nobody
yells at my little...
[ Sobs ]
boy."
Oh, my God.
It’s happening again.
It’s okay, Jay.
Let it out. Let it out.
You only get one mom.
I’m sorry, Mom.
Me too.
Bottle of red.
Bottle of– What?
[ Phil Sighs ]
Oh, yeah.
And I’m the weak one?
Mitchell?
I’m good.
[ Beeps ]
[ All Groan ]
Phil, come on. Oh, honey.
[ Kids Groan ]
- Oh. I’m sorry.
- Get off of me.
[ Phil ]
I’m sorry.
[ Lily Crying ]
Da-da.
I think
she’s calling you.
Don’t even try.
I have that
pottery class in the morning.
[ Crying Continues ]
Jay, let’s go to bed.
I’ll be right up.
Okay.
[ Sniffs ]
Son of a bitch.